---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: The Things I Never See
date: 2016-10-20
labels:
  - HTML
  - CSS
  - Semantic UI
  - Style
  - Web Apps
  - Meteor
---

I said in a previous essay that making a good looking website is easy now-a-days, but making a good looking website (or web app) that looks good and works well?

<em>Now that's hard.</em>

I've recently started working with the Meteor web app framework and I have to say, it's kind of blowing my mind. It's like HTML on steroids, and even more. Maybe because I'm such a novice and I'm looking at this whole thing with rose tinted glasses, but I think this whole web design thing is just incredible. There is just so much you can do with the Meteor toolkit, but it is a treacherous world and one that not everyone can make it through.

## Brave New World

To say that there is a learning curve to Meteor would kind of be an understatement and to be quite frank, <em>I don't think Meteor is for everyone.</em> It is a hard thing to learn, and if someone doesn't understand it, I wouldn't blame them for that. I myself don't even understand the very fundamentals, most of the code I did was just sort of a copy and paste job.

But I did try to learn a bit (I mean, what kind of student would I be if I didn't), so I wasn't doing this whole thing blind. From what I could tell, Meteor just gives us a means to interact with the "back end" of our website, or the database on the server side. Other than that, I really don't know any more of the specifics. I don't have a lot of experience designing for the web, or how exactly websites work. Part if it just sort of feels like magic to me.

## A Different Beast

Normally, I don't deal with web apps or web design, or even just HTML in general; I'm a computer engineering student. I know understand sampling theory, transmission lines, computer architectures, semiconductor physics, differential equations, and all that great stuff. What I have to do here with Meteor, is completely different than what I am normally used to. I feel like a fish out of water. 

Having the opportunity to work on projects that use Meteor has really opened up my eyes to another world that I never really get to experience, and I have to say, <em>I'm kind of enjoying it</em>. 

The other day I was at a college career fair and I talked to some people about web design. I talked to them about what (little) I knew about databases, Mongo, and Meteor, and it's really interesting how responsive they were. They genuinely seemed excited that I talked about all these things and were in the process of learning how to use these tools. That makes me excited to learn. I want to get better at all of this, and I want to know more. Not only do I want to learn about low level hardware, I want to know more about this higher level applications that I never see enough of.

I guess that's why I'm in computer engineering in the first place. It gives me the opportunity to learn both: the intricacies of transistors, and the broad strokes javascript. Meteor helped me open my eyes to see a world I never get to see enough.  
