---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Vexillology and Computing: Design vs Design
date: 2016-09-04
labels:
  - Flags
  - Computers
  - Design
---
## Everything we Don't See

There is this Ted talk floating around about the worst designed city flags in America. If you haven't seen it already I [definetly recommend that you do](https://youtu.be/pnv5iKB2hl4). It's presented by a guy named Roman Mars, who is the host of several other things including a podcast called 99% Invisible (which you should also totally [check out](http://99percentinvisible.org)).

The whole point of his show is to showcase the design of different things that we normally don't notice or take for granted: everything we don't see. This includes things like city benches, basketball shot clocks, shopping malls, and in the case of his ted talk, city flags. I never took notice of any of those things before, I just sort of thought that they were dispensible elements, or sometimes in all honesty, I just never cared. This though brings up one of the biggest ideas when it comes to desgin:

The best designed things are often <b><i>things we don't notice</i></b>.

We don't notice or consider the design of drinking cups or pencils, but these things are the result of people who sat down, solved a problem they had in everyday life, and came up with a design or idea so good, that it became ubiquitous. This sort of invisible design is everywhere even in things that are meant to be distinctive: flags are one of those things. We often don't notice the design of a good flag, it is seen everyday, and if it is designed well we often don't notice at a passing glance. We notice bad flags, we notice bad design.

In the case of the average everyday comsumer, it applys to computers as well: they don't care about how or why a computer works, they just want it <i>to work</i>, and if computer designers and programmers do their job well, it often goes unnoticed. Only when design is bad or inefficient do consumers notice, they won't know why, but they will know. 

So what can flag design teach us about computer design?

# Vexillology & Computing: Hidden Architecture

Vexillology (what a tounge twister) is the study of flags, and the North American Vexillological Society is an organization dedicated to the study and design of flags. Together they have made five rules that they believe dictate good flag design:

<ol>
<li> Keep it simple </li>
<li> Use meaningful symbolism </li>
<li> Use 2-3 basic colors </li>
<li> No lettering or seals </li>
<li> be distinctive </li>
</ol>

